well with famine imminent in the Gaza
Strip the United Nations says it has
enough food to feed the population there
either at or near its borders but
getting Aid into the besieged territory
continues to prove extremely
difficult in theory food and Medical Aid
can get into Gaza via Land Air and sea
for now ships unload at Port SED in
Egypt and freight trucks take it to the
gazen
Border many countries are airdropping
Aid despite the death of people hit by
packages or who drowned trying to get to
Aid that fell in the
Mediterranean in an attempt to speed up
deliveries the US plans to build a
floating platform off the Gaza Coast
it's unclear exactly where it will
be it's the same design as this one
built in the United Arab Emirates
experts say it will still not be
enough Overland routes are the most
efficient way to bring food in but
inspections make it a lengthy process
Aid trucks are inspected by Egyptians in
Elish they are then inspected by
Israelis at the Kum Shalom or nitsana
Crossings and only then head to the Rafa
Crossing where they are often delayed
again after coming under pressure from
the United States Israel said it would
allow its part of ashdod to be used
temporarily to bring an aid and open the
ARA's Border Crossing into the north of
Gaza
The era's Crossing was breached by Hamas
militants in the October 7th Terror
attacks which led to Israel's military
operation in
Gaza previously the era Crossing was
limited to people on foot and was not
built for truck traffic that means its
opening is unlikely to drastically
change the flow of supplies into
Gaza JB McGoldrick is the UN Aid
coordinator for the occupied Palestinian
territory welcome to DW news apart from
the Aras Crossing Israel's defense
minister has announced the opening of
another Crossing closer to the coast
near seek Him and reckons Israel will
flood Gaza with Aid what do you make of
that well I think we welcome any
opportunity to get more Aiden we need
500 trucks a day and we're probably
getting at the moment about 200 to 250
and as you mentioned there's famine in
the north that's imminent and in other
parts as well really deep insecurity
food wise so if we can as many roads
open and as many land routes as well as
this proposed sea route then it'll all
help but uh right now the humanitarian
community's only got the one opening
which is the kamam Shalom Rafa you were
in Gaza just this week what did you
see well I've seen it I go every week
and every time you go in there it's no
different just gets more and more
depressing um people are worried very
much now because of the the actual
impact of a possible Raa in Curson and
at the same time they're dealing with a
day-to-day living there which is really
drastic people living in really squal
conditions very very hot temperatures
now the water and sanitation issues are
problematic the health uh the health
services don't work and we are
struggling to get enough food supplies
and so there's so many areas of people's
daily life which they're suffering with
you say it's getting worse and worse
from trip to trip but do you sense any
hope with um the situation changing at
least internationally with more pressure
coming from Israel's biggest allies
especially the US when it comes to uh
continuing this
war well we've been asking Israel for a
long time now to have more supply routes
and more possibilities of delivering Aid
inside and they now starting to listen
to us and as you saw last week they made
announcements of all of these things
like the as the ashdod port more
openings in the north a COR coming from
Jordan into it as well as the sea route
and the three roads inside to allow
delivery of assistance side and the
especially the north part of Gaza so
these are the things so there is hope in
the sense that that's starting to move
we see more trucks come in yesterday and
the day before than ever before and I
think that's part and parcel of what
we're looking for from the Israeli
authorities to allow us a much more
permissive approach to delivering more
and more Aid into different parts of
Gaza because there are 2.2 million
people there who are dependent on
humanitarian assistance and there's only
250 trucks that are coming in so that
doesn't make enough up there because
there's usually usually 500 trucks today
so there's a massive gap which has been
in place for over 6 months of course
another challenge is once you get that
Aid in there those trunks are being
ransacked in some cases by people out of
pure desperation criminal gangs how do
you deal with
that well I think there's two ways to do
it and one was mentioned the fact that
you flood the place with uh enough Aid
so every gets everybody gets enough and
then you demonetize the problem so that
there's not a value product everybody
has something and the desperation goes
and I think the other one is then to
have the the former blue policemen who
were there before who are no longer able
to do the the the security crowd control
and the guarantees they used to give us
because they've been targeted by Israel
so Israel holding back deliveries is
creating this desperation is that what
you're saying well I think that we we've
asked for these more openings it's now
start to happen so hopefully the
announcements will actually turn into
actual operations and implementation
right now they're just announcements
there's no extra trucks have come in
through ashod or through G the north
part of Gaza we're dealing only only
basically with one road at the moment uh
that's delivering assistance and it's
clearly not enough and the roads we're
using two of them are really badly
damaged the one on the coast Road the AL
Rashid and the one in the Middle sakaden
Road both of them have been shunned up
through military activity and other
hostilities we have to Flat grade those
again for them to be used and the only
really operational one is the Military
Road on the outside which only allows
we've only had eight corn convoys over
the last three or four weeks so the the
supplies to the North in particular are
very limited jimie what about the air
drops are they making a
difference well anything makes a
difference if it comes in but I mean I
think it's very very costly uh to have
air drops it's about 300 times more per
ton by air than it is by Road and
there's no guarantee who ends up having
those who reaches you've seen many
people dying in the water or getting hit
by things that are falling and it
doesn't go to the ones who are probably
most needy it goes to the ones who are
strongest is able to run and catch these
and carry these back and I I don't know
that what type of food they drop but I'm
not sure it's the it's the food that
people are looking for so it's not just
creating a a state of desperation but
also one of survival of the fittest by
the sounds of it you've dealt with many
humanitarian crises in your time how
would you say This One
Compares I think that this one is
different because people can't leave you
know the tra in this space Gaza and
they're piled into what's in Rafa right
now which was a town of 250,000 before
the war it's now over a million and the
conditions there are quite solid and
they're overcrowded and people are have
really facing uh you know things like uh
diseases that emerge hepatitis A the
diarrheal diseases all these things have
happened the services that are there are
broken the health services only 10 out
of the 36 hospitals Bas barely function
there's no electricity and the water
supply SS really really series it's very
very rare you get a a crisis that's
being created to this depth and
magnitude in a short period of time
affecting the whole population in an
area that's not normal in a crisis and
this is something that's been done
through his
man-made J codrick their un Aid
coordinator for the occupied Palestinian
territory thank you very much for
joining us from
Jerusalem thank
you